Well, you've now learned how to create and configure your Kafka consumers.
You haven't yet seen how to measure their performance.
In this section, we're going to review some of the information you have
available to better understand how your consumer applications are performing.
The most important metric to understand for your Kafka consumer is consumer lag.
Consumer lag is measured by taking the difference between
the current consumer offset in the offset of the newest message for that topic partition.
There will almost always be some consumer lag.
So if you measure this difference and see some small dif, that's okay.
If you notice that the consumer lag number continues to grow over time though,
that is an indicator that your consumer can't keep up.
In that case, you typically will need additional consumer processes in order to keep up.
You can use Kafka Clyde tools to measure consumer lag.
Another important metric to measure is the number
of messages per second passing through your Kafka topic.
This number indicates the throughput of your topic,
and can be useful in understanding if you're meeting your performance goals.
Low throughput may indicate that there isn't as much data as expected,
or that the consumer simply cannot keep up.
This metric is typically calculated in conjunction with your consumer lag.
Kafka emits metrics for throughput via the Java Metrics Exporter or JMX,
so that you can hook this metric directly into
your monitoring dashboards and alerting systems.